Secret Filtering component for Alloy (#1593)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/loki/loki.secretfilter.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/loki/loki.secretfilter/
description: Learn about loki.secretfilter
title: loki.secretfilter
labels:
  stage: experimental
---

<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Experimental</span>

# loki.secretfilter

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`loki.secretfilter` receives log entries and redacts sensitive information, such as secrets, from them.

## Usage

```alloy

> loki.secretfilter "LABEL" {
>     forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loki.secretfilter "<LABEL>" {
    forward_to = <RECEIVER_LIST>
```

Use `<` and `>` around replaceable elements this for (future) consistency. The docs are being aligned to use this syntax.

Author: Changed in 500891fa01cbc83dac17ae4ea6fce500f2a1d8fb.

The `exclude_generic` argument is a boolean that excludes the generic API key rule in the gitleaks config file if set to `true`.

The `allowlist` argument is a map of regexes to allowlist matching secrets. If a secret matches any of the regexes, it will not be redacted. The allowlist in the gitleaks configuration is also applied.

The `partial_mask` argument is the number of characters to show from the beginning of the secret, before the redact string is added. If set to `0`, the entire secret is redacted.

## Blocks

The `loki.secretfilter` component does not support any blocks, and is configured fully through arguments.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

| Name       | Type           | Description                                                   |
| ---------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `receiver` | `LogsReceiver` | A value that other components can use to send log entries to. |

## Component health

`loki.secretfilter` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.

## Debug metrics

> `loki.secretfilter` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`loki.secretfilter` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.
```

Author: Changed in 500891fa01cbc83dac17ae4ea6fce500f2a1d8fb.

## Example

> This example shows how to use `loki.secretfilter` to redact secrets from log entries before forwarding them to a Loki receiver. It uses a custom redaction string that will include the secret type and its hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to use `loki.secretfilter` to redact secrets from log entries before forwarding them to a Loki receiver.
It uses a custom redaction string that will include the secret type and its hash.
```

Author: Changed in 500891fa01cbc83dac17ae4ea6fce500f2a1d8fb.

```alloy
local.file_match "local_logs" {

> 	path_targets = PATH_TARGETS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	path_targets = <PATH_TARGETS>
```

Author: Changed in 500891fa01cbc83dac17ae4ea6fce500f2a1d8fb.

}

loki.source.file "local_logs" {
	targets    = local.file_match.local_logs.targets
	forward_to = [loki.secretfilter.secret_filter.receiver]
}

loki.secretfilter "secret_filter" {
	forward_to  = [loki.write.local_loki.receiver]
	redact_with = "<ALLOY-REDACTED-SECRET:$SECRET_NAME:$SECRET_HASH>"
}

loki.write "local_loki" {
	endpoint {

> 		url = LOKI_ENDPOINT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		url = <LOKI_ENDPOINT>
```

Author: Changed in 500891fa01cbc83dac17ae4ea6fce500f2a1d8fb.

	}
}
```
Replace the following:

>   - `PATH_TARGETS`: The paths to the log files to monitor.
>   - `LOKI_ENDPOINT`: The URL of the Loki instance to send logs to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - _`<PATH_TARGETS>`_: The paths to the log files to monitor.
  - _`<LOKI_ENDPOINT>`_: The URL of the Loki instance to send logs to.
```

Author: Changed in 500891fa01cbc83dac17ae4ea6fce500f2a1d8fb.

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/loki/loki.secretfilter/
description: Learn about loki.secretfilter
title: loki.secretfilter
labels:
  stage: experimental
---

<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Experimental</span>

# loki.secretfilter

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> `loki.secretfilter` receives log entries and redacts sensitive information, such as secrets, from them.

Author: Added in 2af69ba36031b7caa891fbd4249c4332ee8d5468

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/loki/loki.secretfilter/
description: Learn about loki.secretfilter
title: loki.secretfilter
labels:
  stage: experimental
---

<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Experimental</span>

# loki.secretfilter

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`loki.secretfilter` receives log entries and redacts sensitive information, such as secrets, from them. The detection is based on regex patterns, defined in the gitleaks configuration file embedded within the component. It can also use a custom configuration file based on the gitleaks configuration file structure.

Note that Personally Identifiable Information (PII) or undefined secret types could remain undetected.

> [Gitleaks configuration file]: https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks/blob/master/config/gitleaks.toml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[gitleaks]: https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks/blob/master/config/gitleaks.toml
```

Fixed xref syntac

## Usage

```alloy
loki.secretfilter "<LABEL>" {
    forward_to = <RECEIVER_LIST>
}
```

## Arguments

`loki.secretfilter` supports the following arguments:

Name                     | Type                 | Description                                     | Default                          | Required
-------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------
`forward_to`             | `list(LogsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send log entries to.       |                                  | yes

> `gitleaks_config`        | `string`             | Path to the custom gitleaks.toml file.          | Embedded one                     | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gitleaks_config`        | `string`             | Path to the custom `gitleaks.toml` file.        | Embedded Gitleaks file      | no
```

`types`                  | `map(string)`        | Types of secret to look for.                    | All types                        | no
`redact_with`            | `string`             | String to use to redact secrets.                | `<REDACTED-SECRET:$SECRET_NAME>` | no
`exclude_generic`        | `bool`               | Exclude the generic API key rule.               | `false`                          | no
`allowlist`              | `map(string)`        | List of regexes to allowlist matching secrets.  | `{}`                             | no
`partial_mask`           | `number`             | Show the first N characters of the secret.      | `0`                              | no

> The `gitleaks_config` argument is the path to the custom `gitleaks.toml` file. If not provided, the embedded one is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `gitleaks_config` argument is the path to the custom `gitleaks.toml` file.
The Gitleaks configuration file embedded in the component is used if you don't provide the path to a custom configuration file.
```

> The `types` argument is a map of secret types to look for. The values are used as prefixes for the secret types in the gitleaks config. If not provided, all types are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `types` argument is a map of secret types to look for. The values are used as prefixes for the secret types in the Gitleaks configuration. If you don't provide this argument, all types are used.
```

The `redact_with` argument is a string that can use variables such as `$SECRET_NAME` (replaced with the matching secret type) and `$SECRET_HASH`(replaced with the sha1 hash of the secret).

> The `exclude_generic` argument is a boolean that excludes the generic API key rule in the gitleaks config file if set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exclude_generic` argument is a boolean that excludes the generic API key rule in the Gitleaks configuration file if set to `true`.
```

> The `allowlist` argument is a map of regexes to allowlist matching secrets. If a secret matches any of the regexes, it will not be redacted. The allowlist in the gitleaks configuration is also applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `allowlist` argument is a map of regular expressions to allow matching secrets.
Aa secret will not be redacted if it matches any of the regular expressions. The allowlist in the Gitleaks configuration file is also applied.
```

Author: Thanks for all the fixes, @clayton-cornell!

> The `partial_mask` argument is the number of characters to show from the beginning of the secret, before the redact string is added. If set to `0`, the entire secret is redacted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `partial_mask` argument is the number of characters to show from the beginning of the secret before the redact string is added.
If set to `0`, the entire secret is redacted.
```

## Blocks

> The `loki.secretfilter` component doesn't support any blocks, and is configured fully through arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `loki.secretfilter` component doesn't support any blocks and is configured fully through arguments.
```
